Define 'CISC processors'
    Complex Instruction Set Computers.
    Large instruction set (which are built into the hardware).
    Tries to accomplish as many tasks in as few lines of assembly code as possible.
Define 'co-processor'→A secondary processor designed to supplement the activities of the primary processor
Define 'GPU'
    Graphics Processing Unit
    Specialised co-processor
    Designed to handle graphics,repetitive and visual tasks quickly and efficiently.
Define 'Multi-core CPUs'
    CPUs with multiple independent cores that can complete instructions separately.
    Resulting in higher performance.
Define 'Parallel Systems'
    Use multiple processors/cores.
    Tasks are split up into smaller parts.
    Each processor/core works on a part at the same time.
    Results are combined at the end.
Define 'RISC processors'
    Reduced Instruction Set Computers
    Only has a small instruction set
    Each instruction approximately one line of machine code and takes one clock cycle
Define 'Threading'
    Programming technique.
    Allows a program to split into multiple threads (small tasks) that can be run in parallel or concurrently.
Difference about CPU and GPU
    CPU => handles all the main functions of a computer
    GPU => specialized component which handles graphic and video rendering
    GPU has thousands of cores, CPU between 2 and 64
Explain 'Parallel Processing'→2+ processors used simultaneously to handle various components of a single activity.
List 3 examples of tasks GPUs are good for
    Image processing
    Machine learning
    Repetitive tasks in general
RISC or CISC: Compiler has to do more work to translate high level code into machine code
    RISC
        The instruction set is small and simple.
        Each instruction does less.
        So, the compiler has to do more work to break down high-level code into many small instructions.
RISC or CISC: less RAM is required since code is shorter
    CISC
    
    RISC: more RAM required to store the code
RISC or CISC: pipelining is possible since each instruction takes one clock cycle
    RISC
    
    CISC: many specialized instructions are made, even though only a few are used
T or F: All programs efficiently use multiple cores efficiently→F: not all programs have been designed to do so
What is the effect on CPU performance of having multiple cores?
    The more cores the more tasks can be executed in the same given time, as more than one FDE cycle will be being executed.
    Thus, CPU performance increases.