What type of storage are CDs, DVDs and Blu-Rays?
    Optical storage.
    Saves digital data by using laser light to read and write information on a disc.
Define 'Input Device'→Device that can be used to put data/information into a computer.
Define 'Output Device'→Device which can be used to send information from the computer.
Give 4 benefits of flash (solid state) storage.
    Durable: no moving parts
    Lower power usage
    Portable: small physical size
    Fast: real time read speed
How does magnetic devices store data?
    Two magnetic states: polarized (0) and unpolarized (1).
    If polarized: all magnetic poles align and can be read by a read/write head passing over the region.
    If not polarized: magnetic poles are randomly scattered and produce different reading on a read/write head.
How does optical memory storage works?
    Light lasers read and write info into spiral tracks on disc.
    Binary info represented by pits and lands which reflect or scatter light.
List 3 disadvantages of CDs
    Easily damaged (scratches)
    Limited storage capacity
    Relatively slow transfer speeds
List an advantage of CDs→Very portable as they are small, thin and light.
List 4 input devices
    Keyboard
    Webcam
    Magnetic stripe reader
    Barcode reader
List 3 output devices
    Speakers
    Projectors
    Monitor
Explain what pits and lands are in the context of optical devices.
    Pits - recessed parts which scatter light; represent 0
    Lands - flat parts which reflect light; represent 1
What are CDs used for?
    Store small quantities of information.
    Made to store music/audio.
What does 'CD' stands for?→Compact disk
What does 'DVD' stand for?→Digital Versatile Disc
CDs, DVDs or Blue-rays holds the most data?
    Blue-rays are the most data dense.
    CDs are the least data dense.
List 3 different sensor devices.
    Accelerometer: measures forces on a device when it moves.
    GPS: global positioning system, tracks location for navigation, maps and location-based maps.
    Gyroscope: measures angular rotation for more precise orientation and motion tracking.
Define 'RAM'
    Temporary memory used while computer is running.
    Stores data and programs that are currently in use.
    Fast, but contents are lost when power is off (volatile).
    Part of main memory.
Define 'ROM'
    Permanent memory that stores BIOS (starting instructions).
    Cannot be changed easily
    Not lost when power is off (non-volatile)
    Part of main memory.
Define 'Main Memory'
    Refers to both RAM and ROM.
    Memory CPU can access directly.
    Stores data and instructions temporarily (RAM) or permanently (ROM) during operation.
Define 'Hard Disk'
    Long-term storage for files, software and OS.
    Much larger than RAM/ROM but slower.
    Non-volatile.