Define "ACC"
    Accumulator
    Holds all inputs/outputs
    Stores the results of calculations from ALU
Define "CIR"
    Current Instruction Register
    Holds current instruction being executed
    Divided into operand and opcode
Define "CU"
    Control Unit
    A processor which directs operations of CPU
Define "MAR"
    Memory Address Register
    Holds the address of a location that is to be read from or written to
Define "MDR"
    Memory Data Register
    Temporarily stores data that has been read or data that needs to be written
Define "PC"
    Program Counter
    Holds address of next instruction to be executed
    Incremented by 1 every cycle
Define "Register"
    Small memory cells which operate at very high speed
    Temporarily store data and all operations occur in them
Define 'Address Bus'
    Transmits memory addresses specifying where data is to be sent to or retrieved from
    Width is proportional to number of addressable memory locations
Define 'ALU'
    Arithmetic and Logic Unit
    Carries out all arithmetical and logical operations
Define 'Buses'→A set of parallel wires which connect two or more components inside CPU
Define 'Cache'
    CPU's onboard memory, retains data for repeat access.
    As it fills up, unused instructions are replaced.
Define 'Clock Speed'→Time taken for one clock cycle to complete.
Define 'Contemporary Processors'
    Processors which use a combination of Harvard and Von Neuman architecture.
    Von Neuman - used when working with data and instructions in main memory
    Harvard - used to divide the cache into instruction and data sections
Define 'Control Bus'
    Bi-directional
    Transmits control signals between internal and external components
    Commands, timings and status signals
Define 'Core'→An independent processor that is able to run its own FDE cycle.
Define 'Data Bus'
    Bi-directional bus
    Transports data and instructions
Define 'Opcode'→Part of the instruction which specifies the type of instruction to be executed.
Define 'Operand'→Bit of the instruction that contains the data, or the address of the data, upon which the operation is to be performed.
Define 'Processor'
    Circuit that executes instructions which allow programs to run.
    'The brain of the computer'
Define 'System Bus'→What is the collective term for the CPU buses.
Define 'System Clock'
    Electronic device which generates signals by switching between 0 and 1.
    All processor activities begin on a clock pulse
Define 'Von Neumann Architecture'
    Program and data are stored in main memory (RAM)
    Includes basic components of computer and processor in which a shared memory and shared data bus is used for both data and instructions.
Define briefly 'FDE Cycle'→The sequence of operations completed to execute an instruction.
Describe the 'decode'  phase of the FDE cycle→The contents of CIR are split into operand and opcode
Describe the 'execute' phase of the FDE cycle→The decoded instruction is executed
Describe the 'fetch' phase of the FDE cycle
    Address from PC is copied to MAR
    Instruction held at address is copied to MDR (data bus)
    Simultaneously, contents of PC increased by 1
    Value held in MDR is copied to CIR
Explain 'Pipelining'
    Process of completing the stages of the FDE cycle of three separate instructions simultaneously.
    While one instruction is being executed, another is decoded and another is fetched.
Explain why adding more RAM will improve the performance of a computer system.
    Allows for more temporary data in RAM
    Reduces need for virtual memories (reduce risk of disk thrashing)
    RAM is quicker to access than VM/secondary storage
    because data in VM needs to be swapped with data in RAM first
How does cache influence the performance of the CPU?
    Instructions fetched from main memory are sent to cache
    More cache = more instructions can be stored
    If instruction is required again; has quicker access
List 2 advantages of the Harvard Architecture
    Quicker execution: data and instructions can be fetched in parallel
    Memories can be different sizes, which can make more efficient use of space
List 2 advantages of the Von Neumann Architecture
    Cheaper to develop as the CU is easier to design
    Programs can be optimised in size
List 3 factors that affect CPU performance
    Clock speed
    Number of cores
    Amount/type of cache memory
List 4 functions of the Control Unit
    It controls how data moves around inside the CPU.
    It tells the ALU, registers, and memory what to do.
    It decodes instructions.
    Sends control signals to make sure everything happens in the right order.
Name 3 registers used during the FDE cycle→MDR, MAR and CIR
State the name of the 3 buses which makeup the system bus.
    Data bus
    Control bus
    Address bus
State 2 benefits of “Parallel Processing”
    Faster performance: more tasks done at the same time.
    Better multitasking: smooth running of many programs.
State 2 parallel processing limitations.
    Not all tasks are parallel
    More complex and costly (harder to program)
State the name of the register that would be altered in the execute phase during a branch instruction.→Program Counter
What happens to instructions at the CIR?→Divided into operand and opcode.
What is the purpose of 'Pipelining'?→Aimed to reduce the amount of the CPU which is kept idle.