Explain the agile methodology.
    Problem is broken down into sections which are developed in parallel.
    Uses prototypes ⇒ improved in iterative manner.
    Less focus on documentation ⇒ priority to user satisfaction.
Define 'Alpha Testing'
    Carried out in-house ⇒ software development teams within company.
    Bugs are pinpointed and fixed.
Define 'Beta Testing'
    Carried out by end-users
    After alpha testing
    Feedback from users ⇒ informs next stage of development
Define 'Black Box Testing'
    Carried out within company or by end-users
    Software tested without testers being aware of software's internal structure
    Test plan traces through inputs and outputs within software
Define 'Extreme Programming'
    An agile model ⇒ development team consists of a pair of programmers alongside a representative end-user.
    Programmers don't work longer than 40 hours a week ⇒ quality is not compromised.
    Regular code reviews.
    System requirements specified by end-user.
    Each cycle generates a 'working version' of program ⇒ could function as final product.
Define 'RAD'
    Rapid Application Development
    Iterative methodology ⇒ uses partially functioning prototypes which are continually built-upon.
    User requirements gathered using focus group
    'Incomplete' version is developed => ‘good enough’ within time limit rather than perfect.
    Given to user to trial ⇒ feedback used to generate the next
    Continues until prototype matches user requirements ⇒ becomes final product
Define 'Spiral Model'
    Four key stages with focus of effectively managing risk-heavy projects:
    Analysing system requirements (gather requirements up front).
    Pinpointing and mitigating risks
    Development, testing and implementation
    Evaluating to inform next iteration
    Client feedback at end of each iteration
    https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/WYZHghZvhrQjQCjOYpq_IZn2LpO5Were6d_7OBXSZv2DfL_cDHAkIQHJV_591-HrCl_8SBiZJfY1eGQFto4xMHoHMjkokvdybwkOm3Al0IlFZJULxZvicy-Rc-LnNl0S.jpeg
        If project is too risky at any point ⇒ project termination
Define 'Waterfall Lifecycle'
    Series of stages completed in sequence from start to finish.
    https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/_qv3jq53YtyM17BdU73iub_nWkstSb7Qe1XRf-EXUcDIQXyyrPuFqKWcjz4ELlOeJW4P-NiVbJVq-wFF5YoD3EMyIL44s_uHtwI5nLGDkRDaujSMji1yswC-dp6Yf2f5.jpeg
    Very inflexible model
    
    Gather all requirements up front
    Design everything carefully
    Focus on delivering initial requirements
    Then build it
Define 'White Box Testing'
    Carried out by software development teams
    Test plan based on internal structure of program
    All possible routes through program are tested
During 'Analysis' how can requirements be defined?
    Analysing strengths and weaknesses of current way of problem being solved
    Considering types of data involved ⇒ inputs, outputs, stored data, amount of data
List 2 advantages of the 'Extreme Programming'
    Produces high quality code
    Constant user involvement means high usability
List 2 advantages of the 'Waterfall Methodology'
    Straightforward to manage
    Clearly documented
List 2 disadvantages of the 'Agile Methodology'
    Poor documentation
    Requires consistent interaction between user and programmer
List 2 disadvantages of the 'RAD Methodology'
    Poorer quality documentation
    Fast pace may reduce code quality
List 3 advantages of the 'Agile Methodology'
    Produces high quality code
    Flexible to changing requirements
    Regular user input
List 3 advantages of the 'RAD Methodology'
    Caters to changing user requirements
    Highly usable finished product
    Focus on core features => reduces development time
List 3 advantages of the 'Spiral Methodology'
    Thorough risk-analysis and mitigation
    Caters to changing user needs
    Produces prototypes throughout
List 3 disadvantages of the 'Extreme Programming
    High cost of two people working on one project
    Teamwork is essential
    End-user may not be able to be present
List 3 disadvantages of the 'Spiral Methodology'
    Expensive to hire risk assessors
    Lack of focus on code efficiency
    High costs due to constant prototyping
List 3 disadvantages of the 'Waterfall Methodology'
    Lack of flexibility
    No risk analysis
    Limited user involvement
State 4 criteria considered during 'Evaluation' stage of SDLC
    Robustness
    Reliability
    Portability
    Maintainability
What are the 7 common stages for SDLCs?
    Analysis
    Design
    Development
    Testing
    Implementation
    Evaluation
    Maintenance
What does 'SDLC' stands for?→Software Development Life Cycles
What happens if a change needs to be made within a project being developed using the 'Waterfall Model'?→Programmers must revisit all levels between current stage and stage at which a change needs to be made.
What is the aim of paired programming in 'Extreme Programming'?
    Produce high quality code
    Code is written by one person and critiqued by the other ⇒ improved as it is written.
Where is 'Extreme Programming' useful?
    Small to medium projects
    With unclear initial requirements requiring excellent usability
Where is 'RAD Methodology' useful?
    Small to medium
    Low-budget projects
    With short time-frames
Where is 'Spiral Methodology' useful?
    Large, risk-intensive projects
    With high budget
Where is the 'Agile Methodology' useful?
    Small to medium projects
    With unclear initial requirements
Where is the 'Waterfall Methodology' useful?
    Static, low risk projects
    Which need little user input
    Eg. general-purpose software
