Define 'Abstract Syntax Tree'→Representation of the source code (syntactic structure) in the form of a tree.
Define 'Applications Software'
    Software designed to be used by end-user to perform one specific task.
    Requires systems software in order to run.
Define 'Assembler'
    Translate Assembly code into machine code;
    Each line of assembly code is equivalent to almost one line of machine code;
    So, code is translated on almost a one-to-one basis.
Define 'Assembly Code'
    Low level language used to communicate directly with computer hardware
    Converted to machine code using an assembler
What is meant by 'closed source code'?
    User must hold an appropriate license to use it.
    Users cannot access source code as the company owns the copyright license
Explain what is the 'code generation stage' in the context of compilation.
    Machine code is produced.
    Using the abstract syntax tree.
Define 'Compiler'
    Program which translates high level code into machine code all at once.
    Carries out multiple checks and reports errors.
Define 'Interpreter'
    Translates and executes code line-by-line
    Stop and produces error if line contains and error
Explain 'lexical analysis' in the context of compilation stages.
    Removes whitespaces and comments.
    Tokenisation -> code analysed for keywords, names of variables and constants and replaced by tokens.
    Creates a symbol table with the tokens.
Define 'Linkers'
    At compilation time
    Combines code to software libraries to form a single executable file.
Define 'Loaders'
    At run time (of compiled files)
    Loads the executable file into main memory (RAM) from secondary storage.
    Also, loads any required libraries into main memory.
What is meant by 'open source code'?
    Code can be used by anyone without a license.
    Code is distributed with the source code.
Explain 'optimisation' in the context of compilation stages.
    Last stage of compilation
    Searches for areas in the code where it could be made more efficient.
    Detects and removes insignificant/redundant parts of code.
Explain 'semantic analysis' in the context of compilation stages.
    During syntax analysis stage.
    Computers interpret correct context of words/phrases with multiple meanings.
    Detects logic mistakes within program.
Define 'Source Code'→The original code written by a programmer in a high-level language.
Explain 'syntax analysis' in the context of compilation stages.
    Checks if tokens grammer is valid (for the rules of the programming language).
    If not valid => flagged as syntax errors (added to errors' list).
    Outputs an abstract syntax tree.
Define 'Systems Software'
    Low level software responsible for running/managing the computer's hardware.
    Interacts with hardware to provide a platform for applications software to run.
    User does not directly interact with it.
What are translator programs used for?
    Convert high-level source code into low-level object code (machine code)
    So it is ready to be executed by computer.
Define 'Utility Software'
    Type of system software
    Designed to help monitor, maintain or improve performance of OS.
Describe the purpose of code optimisation.
    Make code more efficient.
    So program uses fewer resources (e.g. memory).
What is the purpose of an antivirus as utility software?
    Responsible for detecting potential threats
    Will alerts user and remove the threat.
What is the purpose of automatic updating as utility software?
    Ensures OS is kept up to date.
    Updates are automatically installed when computer is restarted.
    Updates ensure system is less vulnerable to malware and hacking threats.
What is the purpose of 'backup software' as utility software?
    Automatically creates routine copies of specific files selected by the user at how often user wants.
    If power failure, malicious attack or other incident happens files can be recovered.
Explain the purpose of 'disk defragmentation tools' as utility software.
    When hard disk becomes full it slows down because files become fragmented (stored in different part of memory).
    Disk defragmenter utility rearranges contents of the hard drive.
    Thus can be accessed faster - improving performance.
Explain 2 differences between a compiler and a interpreter.
    Compiler translates code all at once (before it is executed).
    Interpreter translates code line by line (during runtime).
    
    Compiler lists all errors at the end.
    Interpreters stop at first errror.
Give 3 reasons why in some circumstances programmers will choose to write code in assembly language rather than high-level languages.
    More efficient to translate
    Makes more efficient use of CPU/memory
    Compilers/interpreters may not be available
List 2 disadvantages of interpreters.
    Code must be translated every time it is run.
    Interpreted code requires an interpreter to run on different devices.
List 3 disadvantages of using closed source code.
    Usually must pay for the license.
    License restricts how many people can use the software at once.
    Users cannot modify and improve software themselves.
List 2 disadvantages of using open source code.
    Support available online may be insufficient or incorrect (no user manuals).
    Lower security as may not be developed in a controlled environment.
List 2 drawbacks of the optimisation stage of compilation.
    Can significantly add to the overall time taken for compilation.
    Excessive optimisation => may alter the way in which program behaves.
List 3 advantages of using open source code.
    Can be modified and improved by anyone.
    Technical support from online community.
    Can be modified and sold on.
List 3 advantages of using closed source code.
    Thorough, regular and well-tested updates.
    Company owning software provides expert support and user manuals.
    High levels of security as developed professionally.
List 4 examples of applications software
    Desktop publishing
    Word processing
    Spreadsheets
    Web browsers
List 6 examples of utility software.
    Compression software.
    Disk defragmentation tools.
    Antivirus/Anti-malware software.
    Automatic updating software.
    Backup software.
    File repair/manager software.
What is an advantage of using an interpreter.
    Can run/test program line by line.
    Making it faster to find and fix errors.
List the stages of code compilation.
    Lexical analysis
    Syntax analysis
    Code generation
    Optimistion
List the 3 types of translators.
    Compiler
    Interpreter
    Assembler
The two categories software can be divided in are...→Applications software and systems software
What happens if a compiler detects any errors on the program?→Compiler will flag up the error and none of the code will be executed until error is solved
What happens if changes need to be made to a compiled code?→Code will need to be recompiled
What is faster 'interpreter' or 'compiler'
    Interpreters seem faster as code is instantly executed
    But is slower than compiled code as code must be translated each time it is executed.
State 4 advantages of using libraries.
    Ready to use: saves time and money developing and testing modules.
    Makes use of other's expertise.
    More reliable: pre-coded functions have usually been tested throughly.
    Can be reused within multiple programs
Define 'Library'
    Sections of code (pre-compiled)
    Written by other authors
    Containing useful routines