Define 'Class'
    OOP built around them.
    A template defining methods and attributes to make objects.
Explain 'direct addressing'.→Operand gives address which holds the value upon which instruction to be performed.
Define 'Getters'→A method used in OOP which retrieves the value of a given attribute
Define 'Immediate Addressing'→Operand is the actual value upon which the instruction is to be performed
Define 'Indexed Addressing'
    Index register used => stores certain values.
    Final memory address = operand + index register value.
Define 'Indirect Addressing'→Operand gives address of a register which holds another address, where data is located
Explain the concept of inheritance in OOP.
    A class can inherit from another class.
    Subclass has all of the methods and attributes of the superclass.
    Subclass can have its own additional properties.
What is meant by 'instantiation'?
    When classes are used to create objects.
    Class can be used to create multiple objects with the same set of attributes and methods.
Define 'Iteration' => programming structures
    A block of code is executed a certain number of times or while a condition is  met.
    Uses FOR, WHILE or REPEAT UNTIL loops.
Define 'Object-Oriented Programming'
    Also called OOP
    Built on entities (objects) formed from classes which have certain attributes and methods
    Focuses on making programs that are reusable and easy to update and maintain
Explain 'overloading' in within the context of polymorphism.
    A method within a subclass is redefined
    Code is altered, it functions differently producing a different output.
    Thus, multiple different classes which required different parameters can have the same name.
Explain 'overriding' in the context of polymorphism.
    Redefining a method (from parent class) within a subclass.
    Method takes the same parameters.
    Code of inside method is changed -> different output is produced.
Explain the the OOP property: 'polymorphism'.
    Objects can behave differently depending on their class.
    Can result in same method producing different outputs depending on object involved.
    Happens through overloading or overriding.
Define 'Procedural Programming'
    Most widely-used paradigms
    Uses a sequence of instructions which may be contained within procedures
    Instructions are carried out in a step-by-step manner
Define 'Recursion' => programming structures
    Functions are expressed in terms of themselves.
    Functions are executed,  calling themselves, until a certain condition known as a base case (which  does not call the function) is met.
Define 'Selection' => programming structures→A certain block of code is run if a specific condition is met, using IF  statements
Define 'Sequence' => programming structures→Code is executed line-by-line, from top to bottom
Define 'Setters'→Method that sets the value of a particular attribute
Define “Encapsulation”
    Bundling attributes and methods within classes.
    Restricting direct access to the data.
    Private attributes may only be accessed via getters/setters.
Describe 4 advantages of using “Encapsulation”
    Reduces the change of errors/inconsistencies.
    Ensures objects can only be changed in the way intended.
    Ensuring changes are consistent with how the object should behave.
    Protecting data (can’t be changed accidentally).
List 3 advantages of 'Procedural Programming'
    Can be applied to a wide range of problems
    Relatively easy to write and interpret
    Simple to implement
    Uses traditional data types and structures
List 3 disadvantages of OOP
    Different style of programming => requires alternative thinking style
    Not suited for problems few components are reused => may be more inefficient
    Unsuitable for smaller problems
List 6 advantages of OOP
    High level reusability => due inheritance and polymorphism
    Classes used across multiple projects
    Encapsulation => code more reliable; protects attributes from being directly accessed
    Advance planning required => thourough design =>higher-quality piece of software thus fewer vulnerabilities
    Modular structure => easy to maintain/update
    High-level abstraction => saves time & effort
List a disadvantage of 'Procedural Programming'→Not possible to solve all kinds of problems => may be inefficient
State 2 drawbacks of Round Robin
    Inefficiently split up in multiple cycles - Longer jobs take a much longer time for completion
    Does not take into account job priority
State the 4 programming structures used in 'Procedural Programming'
    Sequence
    Selection
    Iteration
    Recursion
What is OOP useful for?→Applicable to certain types of problems with lots of reusable components which have similar characteristics
Where is 'Procedural Programming' useful?→Suited to problems that can easily be expressed as a series of instructions using constructs.
Why are getters and setters used?→To make sure attributes cannot be directly accessed and edited by users.
Why use “Direct Addressing”?
    Fast
    Simple for fixed addresses, such as those holding static data structures.
    Addressable range limited by operand size.
Why use “Immediate Addressing”?
    Fastest
    Useful for small constants, which are hard-coded and fit in the number of bits available for the operand
Why use “Indexed Addressing”?→Useful for iterating through all items in an array by incrementing the value in the index register.
Why use “Indirect Addressing”?
    Slowest
    Ideal for dynamic data structures such as lists as the address can be changed.
    Extends the addressable range.
What is 'indexed addressing' useful for?→Accessing elements in arrays or lists.
What are the main features code of a constructor method?
    public procedure new (nItemName)
    itemname = nItemName
What does inheritance allows to be done in OOP?→Allows to effectively reuse certain components and properties while making some changes.
Explain 'overriding' in the context of class inheritance.
    Child class inherits a method.
    Method has the same name, parameters and return type.
    But the behaviour of the method is changed.