Explain the difference between pre-emptive and non pre-emptive scheduling algorithms.
    Pre-emptive ⇒  CPU can switch from one process to another before the current process is finished.
    Non pre-emptive ⇒ once a process starts running, it cannot be interrupted until it finishes.
Define 'BIOS'
    First program that runs when a computer system is switched on
    Stored in ROM (non-volatile)
    Runs on boot
Define 'Bootstrap/bootloader'→The program that loads the OS from hard disk into memory
Define 'intermediate code'
    Code halfway between machine code and source code.
    Not specific to any computer (independent of processor architecture).
    Can be used across different machines and OS.
    Needs to be further translated.
Define 'Interrupts'→Signals generated by software or hardware to indicate to the processor that a process needs attention
Define 'Interrup Service Routine (ISR)'
    Special block of code that runs when computer receives an interrupt.
    Tells CPU how to respond to interrupt
    Pauses what CPU is doing, handles interrupt then resumes normal work.
Define 'Object Code'
    Low level code which is understandable by machine
    Generated from source code after going through compiler/translator
    It is in executable machine code format.
Define 'Operating System'→Collection of programs that work together to provide an interface between the user and computer.
Define 'Peripheral'
    Auxiliary hardware device that is not part of the CPU
    Used to transfer info in and out of computer
Define 'processor starvation'→When a particular process does not receive enough processor time in order to execute and be completed
Define 'Virtual Machine'
    Software that simulates a real computer.
    Lets you run an (or multiple) OS isolated from host OS.
    Acts like a separate machine(s) on same hardware.
Give two examples of interrupts.
    Printer signaling completion of a job.
    Peripheral signaling power failure.
Explain 'Distributed OS'→Type of OS that allows multiple computers to work on a single task
Explain 'Embedded OS'
    Built to perform small range of specific tasks
    Limited in their functionality
    Hard to update - cannot be changed as is read-only
    Consume significantly less power than any other OS
Explain 'First Come First Served'
    Jobs processed in chronological order in which entered queue
    Does not allocate processor time based on priority
Explain 'Multi-tasking OS'
    Runs multiple programs at the same time.
    Done by time slicing to quickly switch between programs and applications in memory.
Explain 'Multi-user OS'
    Allows multiple users to use computer (OS) at the same time.
    Normally a supercomputer
Explain 'Multilevel Feedback Queues'
    Multiple queues, each with different priority.
    Based on amount of processor time they need.
    Allows processes to move between queues as their characteristics change.
Explain 'Paging'
    Memory is split up into equal-sized sections (pages).
    Programs made up of a certain number of equally sized pages.
    Swapped between main memory and hard disk
Explain 'Real Time OS'
    Commonly used in time-critical computer systems
    Designed to perform a task within a guaranteed time frame
Explain 'Round Robin'
    Each job given a section of processor time (time slice) within which it is allowed to execute
    Time finishes, task goes to end of the queue, continues till job is completed
Explain 'Segmentation'
    Memory management technique.
    Memory is split into logical sized divisions - vary in size.
    Representative of the structure and logical flow of program.
Explain 'Shortest Job First'
    Selects the process that takes the shortest amount of time to complete.
    The process is run until fully complete.
Explain 'Shortest Remaining Time'
    Selects the process that takes the shortest amount of time.
    The process can be suspended if another shorter process is added.
Explain 'Virtual Memory'
    Uses section of hard drive to act as RAM when space in main memory is insufficient.
    Sections of program not currently in use are moved into virtual memory through paging
    Frees memory for other programs in RAM
Explain how a device driver works→When a piece of hardware is used, it is the device driver that communicates this request to the OS which can then produce the relevant output
Explain what should happen at the CPU when it receives an interrupt?
    Processor checks interrupt register after completing FDE cycle.
    Compares priority of incoming interrupt.
    If higher priority than current task:
    Register contents saved to stack, ISR loaded into RAM, PC updated to start ISR.
    Continue until no more high-priority interrupt arrive.
    Then, registers restored from stack.
    Normal FDE cycle resumes.
How are interrupts stored?→In priority queues
How are virtual machines used to run incompatible software?
    Virtual machine runs a different OS.
    An OS which the program can be run on.
    This saves time and money.
How can a virtual machine be used for protection from malware?
    If VM is affect by malware it can be deleted and recreated.
    The rest of system is not affected.
List 2 examples of non pre-emptive scheduling algorithms
    First Come First Served
    Shortest Job First
List 3 examples of pre-emptive scheduling algorithms
    Multilevel Feedback Queues
    Shortest Remaining Time
    Round Robin
List 4 examples of systems software
    Library programs
    Utility programs
    Operating system
    Device drivers
List 8 OS features
    Memory management (paging, segmentation, vm)
    Resource management (scheduling)
    File management (deleting, moving, editing)
    I/O management (device drivers)
    Interrupt management
    Utility software (disk defragmenter, backup)
    Security (firewall)
    User interface
List the 5 types of OS
    Distributed
    Embedded
    Multi-tasking
    Multi-user
    Real time
State one drawback of  ‘First Come First Serve’→Does not allocate processor time based on priority
State one drawback of ‘Multi-level Feedback Queues,→May be difficult to implement - due deciding which job to prioritise based on a combination of priorities
State one drawback of ‘Shortest Job First’
    Requires processor knowing how to calculate how long each job will take
    Not always possible
State one drawback of ‘Shortest Remaining Time’→Risk of processor starvation for longer jobs if short jobs keep being added
State the appropriate application software for: calculating the company profits at the end of each month→Spreadsheet
State the appropriate application software for: creating brochures and flyers about the organisation.→Desktop publishing software
State the appropriate application software for: creating graphics such as a logo.→Graphics/Image editing software
State the appropriate application software for: storing, searching and updating client details and purchases→Database software
State the appropriate application software for: writing letters to clients to confirm their appointment date and time.→Word processing software
T or F: device drivers are not specific to the OS installed on device.→F: device drivers interact with OS, thus they must be specific to the OS. They are installed onto the OS (or pre-installed for generic drivers)
T or F: device drivers are specific to the computer's architecture.→T: different drivers must be used for different device types (eg. smartphones, PCs, etc).
T or F: Main memory is always sufficient to store all programs being used in a computer.→F: thus, OS determines and allocates the length of processor time each task receives through paging, segmentation and virtual machines.
Virtual memory vs Virtual storage
    VM: the use of secondary storage as additional primary memory
    VS: refers to the storage of data on a remote server - can be accessed over internet
What 3 key tests BIOS run before OS is loaded into memory?
    POST: ensures all hardware are correctly connected and functional.
    Checking if CPU clock, memory and processor are operational.
    Testing for external memory devices connected to the computer.
What is the advantage of using virtual machines to test code?
    Will not need to purchase multiple devices solely for testing.
    Thus, reducing hardware costs.
What is the disadvantage of using virtual machines for testing?
    Running intermediate code on VM can be considerably slower,
    In comparison to running low level code on the device designed for it.
What are VMs commonly used for?
    Creating development environments for programmers to test code on different OSs
    Protection from malware
    Running incompatible software
What does 'BIOS' stand for?→Basic Input Output System
What is the key issue with Virtual Memories?
    Disk thrashing.
    Computer freezes as pages are being swapped too frequently between hard disk and main memory
    Gets worse as virtual memory is filled up
Where are real time operating systems used?→Any situation where a response within a certain time period is crucial to safety.
Why is BIOS important?→Only after BIOS checks that the OS can be loaded into RAM from hard disk
Why must a scheduling algorithm be used on a multi-user OS?
    Ensure time is shared fairly between jobs
    No suitable algorithm: risk of processor starvation
Explain two benefits of memory management to the user.
    Security: does not let programs access memory reserved for other programs.
    Multitasking: allows multiple programs to run at once.
Define 'Device Drivers'
    Program provided by the OS.
    Allows OS to communicate with hardware (that controls a specific device).
    Does it so by providing an interface.