Define '1 to 1 Entity Relationship'
    Each entity can only be linked to one other entity
    Eg.  relationship between a husband and wife.
    The husband entity can only be  associated with one wife entity and vice versa.
    Demonstrated using  a single line used to connect two entities.
    https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/DPh0MJ2pa9ZRHF42LmHkQZsUt30QNlBDkB9JkM6n2UVBEY_2paP_-x3gnqJzNi4LKXOmqQxo52NInKdJE4GziMaFYc_M7gnPhsTf6HpT0tGGiJ-I8Y_NXaeZ-WSm5zVV.jpeg
Define '1 to Many Entity Relationship'
    One table can be associated with many other tables
    Eg. a  mother having multiple children.
    Similarly, multiple child entities can be linked to the  same mother entity.
    Demonstrated by a branch on  one side
    https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/04kZRaZ4ScCrOMFaveKnl1QDm2gycwTRgOoXfzYcUy6JBIiLN5cYRSY5UWsNJv4PUr42bFUZ-4tXR1cbIChd8aX4r7PFwVL60lVa9PEBOngpVIs2peuTvdw_7FaLsjNp.jpeg
Define 'Atomicity' (ACID)→A transaction must be processed in its entirety or not at all
Define 'Consistency' (ACID)→A transaction must maintain the referential integrity rules between linked tables
Define 'Durability' (ACID)→Once a transaction has been executed it will remain so regardless of the  circumstances surrounding it, such as in the event of a power cut.
Define 'First Normal Form'→There must be no attribute that contains more than a single value.
Define 'Flat file database'
    Stores data in a single table (file).
    Often in a plain text file.
    Each line will hold a single record.
    Delimeters such as commas are used to separate this into different fields.
    Usually based around a single entity and its attributes
    Eg.
    https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/mNoHqllih0HJupP9gf2NAB-bMzOsIuQiqd-v-RQvzTXqA4tsAfInJm-mxZIX9zPi-cDX0hGfZAUzuyvm8xzNOi1ypGyfT7Om97h4rS8gGgZJJke1BhvhG3K451UH1BMf.jpeg
Define 'Foreign Key'
    A field that links to a primary key in a second table.
    Shown using asterisk (*)
Explain indexing in databases with relation to using primary and secondary keys for data retrieval.
    Technique used to speed up searching/data retrieval in a database.
    Maps position of each record  to a certain attribute.
    
    Examples:
        Primary key is automatically  indexed, but almost never queried since it is not normally  remembered.
        This is why secondary keys are used. Secondary keys are indexed to make  the table easier and faster to search through on those particular attributes.
Define 'Isolation' (ACID)→Simultaneous executions of transactions should lead to the same result as if they  were executed sequentially.
Define 'Many to Many Entity Relationship'
    One entity can be associated with many other entities and the same  applies the other way round.
    Eg. students and courses => each student  can enrol in more than one course and each course can have more than one  student.
    Demonstrated by branches on both sides.
    https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/lzzWQepIRukX3310d6SbVp93txrK4hRr-pra9cFVOSgSkU9bS1Cokpm1tQ3KCB9DCQdzy_NY4MkwwgMY-csd912TO7ZLPldNlwTQdp5P3JXMIwyqGQBRu-6V4znp4HBH.jpeg
Define 'Normalisation' (databases)
    Process of coming up with the best possible layout for a relational database
    
    Tries to accomplish the following things
        No redundancy => unnecessary duplicates
        Consistent data throughout linked tables
        Records can be added and removed without issues
        Complex queries can be carried out
Define 'Primary Key'
    Unique identifier for each record in a table
    Unique field of a table - normally the ID
    Shown by  underlining  it
Define 'Record Locking'
    Process of preventing simultaneous access to records in a database
    Used in order to prevent inconsistencies or loss of updates
    While one person is editing a record => this 'locks' the record to prevent others from accessing the same record.
Define 'Redundancy' in the context of databases.
    Unnecessary duplication of data in database
    There are 2+ copies of the data in physically different locations.
Explain what is meant by 'referential integrity' and how it is achieved.
    Database/relationships are consistent.
    Ensures info is not removed if it is required elsewhere in a linked database.
    If two databases are linked => one of the tables cannot be deleted.
Define 'Relational Database'
    Stores data in multiple different tables.
    Which are linked together using relationships created by primary and foreign keys.
Define 'Second Normal Form' (normalisation)
    Must be in first normal form.
    Database doesn’t have any partial dependencies.
    Thus, no attributes can depend on part of a  composite key.
Define 'Secondary Key'
    Not unique like primary key.
    Used for searching (if primary key does not work) or sorting data in database.
    Can have duplicate values.
Define 'Third Normal Form' (normalisation)
    Database must...
        Be in second normal form.
        Contain no non-key dependencies.
Define 'Transaction Processing'
    Transaction => a single operation executed on data
    Collection of operations can sometimes be considered a transaction
Explain how record locking can be used to ensure that the ACID principle of isolation is achieved when carrying out multiple transactions.
    Outcome of concurrent transactions is the same as if the transactions where completed sequentially.
    Record locking allows one user to access/modify record level data one at a time.
    So data being used elsewhere cannot be modified.
Give 2 benefits of using flat files databases instead of relational databases.
    Easy to set up as only one table is needed.
    All records are stored in one place.
Give 2 drawbacks of using flat files databases instead of relational databases.
    Tables can contain lots of redundant data which inscreases the amount of storage space needed.
    Searching the database can be slower as there is more data to search.
    The database can be more difficult to manage and possibly expand in the future.
Give 3 drawbacks of using relational databases over flat file databases
    Generally more difficult to set up - need more technical knowledge to do things like normalisation.
    Data is spread out between multiple tables.
    Some tables may be link tables which only display key fields
    More expensive as you will need a DBMS rather than just a basic file.
Give 4 benefits of using relational databases over flat file databases
    Less info duplication - less redundant data which can reduce file size.
    Database is easier to manage and expand in the future.
    Searching database may be faster - not all tables need to be searched.
    Can be more secure - different tables means different people ould have different access.
What are the three 'levels' of database normalisation?
    First normal form
    Second normal form
    Third normal form
What are the 3 types of entity relationships?
    One-to-one
    One-to-many
    Many-to-many
What does 'ACID' stands for?
    Atomicity
    Consistency
    Isolation
    Durability
What does it mean for a database to have 'no non-key dependencies'?→Attribute only depends on the value of the primary key and nothing else.
What is the biggest problem with 'Record Locking'?
    Deadlock
    
    Eg.
        User 1 accesses Customer 1’s record and as a result locks Customer 1’s record.
        Simultaneously User 2 accesses Customer 2’s record and as a result locks  Customer 2’s record.
        Now User 1 tries to access Customer 2’s record, and User 2 tries to access  Customer 1’s record.
        User 1 waits for Customer 2’s record to be free and User 2 waits for Customer 1’s  record to be free and as they are both waiting, there is no progress causing a  deadlock.
Why could redundancy in databases be desirable?
    If there is any damage to one copy the others will remain unaffected and can be recovered.
    Some information is very important and people and companies cannot afford to lose this information.