Client or server side? Applying CSS styles to a website→Client side
Client or server side? Loading the website HTML code→Client side
Client or server side? Running JavaScript code to check that all required information is entered in an online form.
    Client side
    However, it is dilligent to recheck at server side
Client or server side? Running queries on the database to check if an item is available in stock→Server side
Define 'API'
    Set of protocols that govern how two applications should interact with each other
    Sets out format of request and response between client and server
    Enables app to make use of the other's services
Define 'bandwidth'→The range of frequencies that a communication medium is capable of transmitting
Define 'client-server networks'
    Terminals (clients) connected to a server (central computer).
    Server provides acces to resource/service.
    Clients can request to use server
Define 'Data Packets'
    Manageable chunks of data
    Contain header and payload => body of data being sent
    Trailer => error detection
Define 'DNS'
    Domain Name System
    System used to name and organize internet resources
DELETE
    All processing and storage is done by server
    All required from thinnest-client computer is very basic machine with very little processer power and no storage
Define 'encryption'→Way of keeping data secure when transmitting it over the internet by making it unreadable if it is intercepted.
Define 'Firewall'
    Piece of software or hardware
    Filters traffic coming in and out of a network.
    To prevent unauthorized access to a network
Define 'Gateway'
    Connects different types of network.
    Translates protocols from one network to another.
Define 'Hub'→Receives data from a device and broadcasts it to all devices connected to it.
Define 'IP Address'
    Internet Protocol
    Unique address assigned to a network device
Define 'local area networks'
    LAN
    Network spread over a small geographical area (single site: school)
    Private ownership controls it
    Fast but short distance
Define 'MAC Address'
    Media Access Control Address
    48-bit value coded into device by manufacturer; identify device
    12 digit hexadecimal number
Define 'MAC'→Media Access Control
Define 'Modem'→Changes a signal from digital to analogue.
Define 'Network'→Two or more computers connected together with the ability to transmit data between each other
Define 'peer-to-peer' (Network)
    No central server
    Network where computers are connected to each other so that they can share files
    Each device acts as both server and client - can provide and request resources
Define 'Protocol'→Set of rules for communication of data between devices.
Define 'proxy server'
    Acts as an intermediary goes between end-user and web pages, collects and sends data on behalf of user.
    Intercepts all packets entering/leaving network - hides true network addresses of source from recipient
    May serve thousands of users
Define 'Routers'
    Connects 2+ networks together
    Assign IP address to devices (creates own LAN)
    Examines data packets and forwards them
Define 'socket address'→The combination of IP address (source and destination) and port number of port being used for communication.
Define 'Switch'
    Join devices together on a LAN.
    Receives data and forwards it to the intended recipient.
    Routes based on MAC addresses.
Define 'URL'
    Uniform Resource Locator
    Full address of an internet resource
Define 'virus'
    Malware
    Self replicates by spreading copies of itself when host files are opened
    Most become memory resident; uninfected files becomes infected when copied into memory
Define 'web crawlers'
    Collect info about websites to build web index search engines rely on
    Different search engines use own web crawlers
Define 'wide area network'
    WAN
    Network spread over a large geographical area
    Communicate between sites
    May be owned by an organization; relies on third party carriers
    Eg. large companies with multiple offices
Define 'worm'
    Malware
    Sub-class of a virus; self-replicates by spreading copies of itself without user intervention
Define a network interface card (NIC)
    Usually built into device.
    Gives each device a MAC address (unique ID).
    Allows a computer system to interface with a network.
Define wireless access point (WAP)
    Allows wireless devices to communicate with each other.
    Sends and receives radio waves.
    Examines data packets and forwards them.
Explain 'Application Layer' (protocol layering)
    At the top of the stack
    Uses protocols relating to the application being used to transmit data over a network
    If app is a browser => protocol selected would be one like HTTP, POP3, FTP
Explain 'Circuit Switching'
    Direct link is create between two devices to allow communication
    Maintained throughout entire conversation
    Requires two devices to transfer and receive data at same rate
Explain 'client-side processing'
    Data is processed on clients' computer; not on server
    
    May happen because:
    Client computer may have specific software to process info
    Lighten load on server's processor
Explain 'firewall'
    Separate computer containing 2 NICs
    One connected to internal and other to external network
    Using special firewall software: firewall passes packets between NICs and compares against preconfigured rules (packet filters)
Explain 'Link Layer' (protocol layering)
    The connection between network devices; adds MAC address identifying Network Interface cads of source and destination computers
    For devices within same network, destination MAC address is address of recipient computer. Otherwise, it will from the router
Explain 'Network Layer' (protocol layering)
    Adds source and destination IP addresses
    Router operate in this layer; uses IP addresses to forward packets
    Sockets (IP + port) used to specify which device the packets must be sent to and the application being used on that device.
Explain 'Packet Switching'
    Data is communicated using packets across a network
    Through most efficient route; vary for each packet
    May be out of order => delayed due network congestion
Explain 'server-side processing'
    Server process enormous data volume on behalf of multiple clients
    Process faster than client's computer
Explain 'trailer' (data packets)
    Check sum or cyclic redundancy check (CRC)
    Trailer contains code used to detect whether any errors have occurred during transmission
Explain 'Transport Layer' (protocol layering)
    Uses TCP to establish end-to-end connection between source and recipient computer
    Splits data up into packets; label with packet number, total number of packets original data was split into and port number used for communication
    If packets get lost, transport layer requests retransmissions of lost packets
Explain how 'gateways' work (networks hardware)
    Remove header data from packet
    Raw data is left; new is added.
Explain how 'web crawlers' work
    Transverse internet web page by web page using links on websites
    Collect keywords and add info to index
    Collect meta data (data about the data)
Explain the automated process that happens after you enter a domain address on your browser
    Domain name is sent to DNS servers
    DNS servers maps domain to an IP address
    If DNS server can't resolve, passes request to another DNS server
    DNS server sends IP address to browser; retrieves website from server
List 2 advantages of 'client-side processing'
    Lighten load of server's processor
    Improve security; avoid unnecessary data transfer
List 3 advantages of 'thick-client'
    Robust, reliable, provides greater up-time
    Can operate without continuous connection to server
    Generally better for running more powerful software applications
List 3 advantages of a 'thin client'
    Easy to set up, maintain and add terminals
    Software updates done on server; automatically distributed to client's terminals
    Security: data is all kept centrally in one place
List 3 advantages of a Client-Server
    More Secure: data is stored in one location
    No need for individual backups are central backups are carried out
    Data and resources can be shared between clients
List 3 disadvantages of 'thin clients'
    Reliant on server: server down; terminal loses functionality
    Expensive: required powerful server
    Server demand; bandwidth increased
List 3 disadvantages of Client-Server
    Relatively expensive to set up
    Functionality of terminals depends on server; causes fall in performance
    Trained staff are required to maintain server
List 3 types of malware
    Worms
    Trojans
    Viruses
List 4 advantages of  'Circuit Switching'
    Data arrives in logical order; quicker reconstruction of data
    Real-time communication; no delays in speech.
    Guaranteed bandwidth
    Predictable performance (because bandwidth is reserved; no resource competition)
List 4 advantages of 'Packet Switching'
    Efficient bandwidth use: shared among users; resource allocated when data needs to be transmitted
    Scalable; can handle large amounts of traffic on network
    Multiple routes available between devices: one breaks, other is used.
    Packets can be transferred over very large networks to allow communication globally
List 4 advantages of using proxies.
    User privacy is protected; remain anonymous
    Faster to load as proxy server can cache frequently used website data
    Reduce overall web traffic
    Admins can use it to prevent access to sensitive/irrelevant info at a site
List 4 disadvantages or Peer-to-peer
    Impossible to trace file origin
    Backups must be performed separately
    Poorer security
    May be difficult to locate resources
List 5 advantages of Peer-to-peer
    Cheaper to set up
    Allows users to share resources
    Easy to maintain
    Not dependent on central server
    Specialist staff are not required
List 5 disadvantages of 'circuit switching'
    Inefficient bandwidth use: reserved even when not sending data
    Limited scalability => finite circuit number => finite simultaneous calls
    Devices must transfer and receive data at same rate
    High cost: requires hardware
    Ties up sections of network which cannot be used by other data until transmission has been completed
List 5 disadvantages of 'packet switching'.
    Higher latency: routed through multiple nodes (delay)
    Packet loss: congestion on network may cause errors in transmission
    Unsuitable for real-time communication, because of packet loss
    Time is spent deconstructing and reconstructing data packets
    Must wait for all packets to arrive before data can be received
List the 4 layers TCP/IP is divided into
    Application
    Transport
    Network
    Link
Name 4 examples of protocols
    HTTP
    TCP/IP
    POP3
    FTP
What are the 2 techniques networks use for exchanging data?
    Circuit switching
    Packet switching
What are the 3 phases of circuit switching?
    Connection establishment
    Data transfer
    Connection released
What are the two main types of network?
    Local area
    Wide area
What does 'Packet Filtering' do?
    Limits  network access according to admin rules/policies
    Examines IP (source and destination) and protocols used and requested ports
    If they match admin's 'permitted' list they are accepted
What does 'thickness' of a client computer mean?
    Refers to level of processing and storage that it does compared with the server it is connected to
    The more processing and storage the server does => the thinner the client
What happens if CRC total differs
    Cyclical redundancy check
    Packet is refused with suspected data; new copy is requested
What happens when firewall denies access?
    Packet is either dropped or rejected
    
    Dropped: no sent alert
    Rejected: sends alert to sender to notify of the error
What info does URL contain?
    Method
    Host
    Location
    Resource
What information does data packets headers hold?
    Sender and recipient IP address
    Protocol being used
        Order of the packets (e.g. 1 of 8)
    Time to Live/ Hop Limit => tells packets when to expire so that it does not travel forever
What is 'HTTP'?
    Hypertext Transfer Protocol
    Used for web page rendering, an encrypted version 'HTTPS' (Secure) is becoming more common
What is 'POP3' and 'IMAP'?
    Post Office Protocol and Internet Message Access Protocol (email protocols)
    POP3: Retrieves emails from mail server; transfer to your computer; deleted from server
    IMAP: keep emails on sever; maintain synchronicity between devices
What is 'TCP/IP'?
    Transmission Control Protocol/ Internet Protocol
    The protocol stack is set networking protocols that work together as four layers
    Packets passed up and down layers during communication
What is malware designed to do?→Cause inconvenience, loss or damage to programs, data or computer systems.
What is meant by 'payroll' (data packets)→Raw data to be transmitted
What is the largest WAN?→The internet
What is the role of the DNS server?→Translate the domain names into IP addresses when we wish to access a website.
Where are peer-to-peer networks often used?→Piracy: as it is almost impossible to trace file's origins
Why are protocols important on a network?
    Sending system has no direct control over the way the receiving system responds.
    Allows standardisation as different devices have different OS/hardware.
    Protocols allow for data to be exchanged in a predictable way/correct format.
