Define 'Asymmetric Encryption'
    Two keys are used: public and private key (key pair)
    Public key => published anywhere
    Private => must be kept private
    
    Single key cannot be used to both encrypt and decrypt communication
    Message encrypted with recipient's public key => decrypted with recipient's private key
Define 'Dictionary Encoding'
    Method lossless compression
    Frequently occuring pieces of data are replaced with an index
    Compressed data is stored alongside a dictionary which matches the frequently occuring data to an index
    Original data can be restored using the dictionary
Define 'Encryption'
    Keep data secure when it's transmitted
    Data is scrambled before it's transmitted
    Deciphered once it arrives at its destination
Define 'Hash Table'
    Data structure which holds key-value pairs
    Used to lookup data in an array in constant time.
Define 'Lossless Compression'
    Will not permanently remove data
    Rewrites data in a more efficient format
    Can be fully reconstructed into original file
    Quality of file is not lost
Define 'Lossy Compression'
    Reduces the size of a file
    Removes some of its information
    Can't recover an original file after being lossy compressed
    Because it reduces the file by completely disregarding some information
Define 'RLE'
    Run length encoding.
    Method of lossless compression.
    Repeated values are removed and replaced with one occurence of data.
    Followed by number of times it should be repeated.
    Example
    AAAAAABBBBB => A6B5C3.
Define 'Symmetric Encryption'
    Both sender and receiver share same private key.
    Used for both encrypting and decrypting data
    Key distributed during key exchange => if intercepted here any communications can be intercepted and decrypted using key.
    Important to keep key secret.
Give 2 file formats that use lossy compression.→JPEG and MP3
Give 3 examples of file formats that use lossless compression.→ZIP, PNG and GIF
What is the advantage of lossy compression?→Can result in smaller file sizes than lossless.
How is data inserted into a hash table?
    Hash function is applied to the key to get an index.
    Storing the value at that index in the hash table.
    If index already taken, collision resolution method is used.
List 2 effects of lossy compression.
    More pixelated images
    Less clear audio recording
What happens if 2 pieces of data (key) produce same hash?
    Collision occurs and must be resolved.
    Could either use linear probing, chaining or use a second hash function to generate a new hash.
    Good hash functions have low collision chance and quick to calculate
What must be transferred along data compressed using dictionary compression?→The dictionary used form the compression
What is the advantage of compressing files?
    Main thing is that it makes files smaller so...
        Cheaper to store files: more files can be stored with same amount of storage space.
        Saves time and money as less time is taken to transfer them over the internet because less data to transfer.
When are hash tables often used?
    Used extensively in situations where a lot of data needs to be stored with constant access times
    Eg. Caches and databases
When does RLE works the best?
    Relies on consecutive pieces of data being same
    If there is little repetition => no great reduction in file size
Why is hashing more useful to store passwords than encryption?
    Output hash function can't be reversed to form the key
    Password entered by user can be hashed and checked agaisnt key to see if it is correct
    Successful hacker would only gain access to keys => can't be reversed to gain passwords
Describe two ways in which hashing can be used in databases.
    For security: hash passwords in database to make sure they cannot be read if stolen.
    For direct access: records can be quickly accessed using hash of index as address.