Define 'ASCII'
    American Standard Code for Information Interchange.
    Character encoding system.
    Represents text using numbers (binary codes).
    Uses 7 bits.
    Allows for 128 different characters.
Define 'Boolean'→Values are restricted to True or False
Define 'Character Set'→Published collection of codes and corresponding characters which can be used by computers for representing text.
Define 'Character' in the context of data types.
    Single symbol used by a computer
    Include letters A-Z, 0-9, hundreds of symbols like ?,@, #
Define 'Integer' in the context of data types.→Whole numbers (including 0 and negatives).
Explain what masks are in the context of binary patterns.
    Mask is a binary pattern used to select/hide specific bits of a binary number.
    Uses a bitwise operation: AND, OR or NOT.
Why do we normalise binary floating-point numbers?
    Ensuring a maximum precision for a fixed number of bits.
    Keep format consistent
    Help computers store and compare floating-point numbers accurately.
Define 'Overflow Error'→Occurs when the result of a calculation is a number that is too large to be represented in the number of bits available.
Define 'string' (data types)
    Collection of characters
    Stores single or successions of characters
Define 'Underflow Error'→Occurs when the result of a calculation is a number that is too small to be represented in the number of bits available.
Define 'Unicode'
    Character set
    Maps different binary values to characters
    Each character is represented by 1-4 bytes
    1 Million different characters - many not yet allocated
What type of numbers can unsigned binary numbers represent?
    Can only represent positive numbers
    Computer must be told if number is signed or unsigned
Give 2 advantages of Unicode over ASCII.
    Unicode has many more characters: ideal for international use.
    Unicodt provides international standard: text displays the same across different systems, avoids errors in character conversion.
How do you know a binary number is normalised?→The binary number starts with the digits 01 (positive) or 10 (negative)
How does a computer represent text?
    Computers use character set (Unicode, ASCII)
    Which maps binary values to characters
    Each character is represented by a unique value
How to convert from sign and magnitude to decimal?
    Take note of the MSB: is it positive or negative?
    Convert the rest of the digits
    Add the sign in front of it
List 2 examples of 'Character Sets'
    ASCII
    Unicode
List 5 data types
    Integer
    Float/Real
    Character
    String
    Boolean
State 2 advantages of using 2's complement instead of sign and magnitude
    Has only one way of representing 0 - can represent one extra value.
    Calculations are more easily performed
What are 8 binary digits called?→Byte
What are the two parts of a floating point number?→Mantissa and the exponent
What is a single binary digit called?→Bit
What is half a byte called?→Nibble (4bits)
What is the disadvantage of ASCII?
    128 characters is plenty for standard western letters and symbols
    Not enough space for representing other languages with different characters
What is the exponent of the floating point number 101011 111?→111
What is the LSB?
    Least significant bit
    The furthest bit to the right
What is the mantissa of the floating point number 101011 111?→101011
What is the most basic way of representing negative numbers in binary?
    Sign and magnitude
    Equivalent to adding + or - in front of a number
    8th place value is a + (0) or  - (1)
What is the MSB?
    Most significant bit
    Furthest bit to the left
What is the result of a 'Left Shift'→Multiplication by 2n , where n is the number of places shifted.
What is the result of a 'Right Shift'→Multiplication by 2-n , where n is the number of places shifted.
When a shift is performed, how is the number padded?→Leading or trailiing zeros are added depending if it was a left or right shift.
Apply a left shift to 0010 1101→0101 1010
Apply a right shift to 0010 1101→0001 0110