Define 'Linked List'
    Dynamic data structure used to hold ordered sequence.
    Where nodes are connected using pointers.
    Nodes stored anywhere in memory - not sequential/not stored in contiguous data locations.
    List accessed by following links from one node to the next.
List the 4 properties of an array.
    Ordered
    Static
    Mutable
    Single type item
    Holds data in contiguous memory
Define "Child" (tree)→A node with incoming nodes
Define "Edge" (tree)
    Connects two nodes together
    Known as a branch or arc
Define "Leaf" (tree)
    A node with no children
    https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/KcMe9dt_TDGUBOsI5JMt608cZgehrH-41120POqMMqs_AD9HHmJkdvUHsIZYmlCh3pkSAnEJaij010GnrE96Xwv83-Mw32zhqbqUL-eUqzlhIkYthblKyjIHI-LEPvcy.jpeg
Define "Node" (tree)→An item in the tree
Define "Parent" (tree)
    A  node with outgoing edges
    https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/BYiwzRed43IN9bpuVT8-qCCT8akBVHkFIXSM_46RsE_MYOSBw2xy4AdZZJOxnUO3YuRji7kP87_53w1JneOkR7i0t2Eh8-4Pnmq49Pq--IJgyH_aurUMCW2J-QBp9lRL.jpeg
Define "Root" (tree)→A single node which does not have any incoming nodes
Define "Subtree" (tree)→Subsection of a tree consisting of a parent and all the children of a parent
Define "Tree"
    Connected form of a graph
    Nodes are connected using branches/edges
    Have a root node (top node)
    https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/dml3MyLcY1L64Rr1aZ7LgY_8sjidqRmQxXXKG0ozV9gW_GNNmbuysG8psxSv-hDEaXmiyv9r0eZPv5zXfdSbEu56x975-dtP3UKWtVMQbzb2DPX-nez4LI8UEBFp0zUF.jpeg
What does it mean for a data structure to be '0 indexed'?→The first element is considered to be at position 0 (index 0).
Define 'Adjacency List'
    Way of representing a graph.
    Each node and its neighbours are stored in a list.
Define 'Adjacency Matrix'
    Form of representing a graph.
    Square matrix where rows and columns represent nodes.
    Values shows wheter there is an edge between them.
Define 'Binary Tree'
    Type of tree
    Each node has a max of two children
Define 'Circular Queue'
    FIFO structure
    Has a front-pointer and a nextFree pointer.
    Can loop back to front of array and store values there (if empty).
How can hashing collisions be resolved?
    Can be resolved either using linear probing or chaining.
    Linear probing: check the next available slot in the table and store it there.
    Chaining: linked list at each index to store multiple items.
A value is hashed, but a collision happens. What is meant by 'collision'?→Two different pieces of data are mapped to the same hashed value.
Define 'Directed Graph'.→The edges can only be transversed in one direction
What is meant if a data structure is dynamic?
    Can store a non-fixed number of items.
    System allocates memory dynamically at runtime.
Define 'Graph'
    Data structure consisting of nodes connected by edges
    Dynamic
Define 'Immutable'→Items cannot change
Define 'In-Order Traversal'
    Draw an outline around tree
    Nodes are traversed in the order in which you pass under them
    Useful for traversing nodes in sequential order
Explain the linear probing method in the context of hashing collisions.
    Case 1: collision happens when attempting to add new item.
        Index new item is trying to be added at is taken.
        Keep increasing initial supposed index until a free index is found.
    Case 2: tryinfg to .get()/retrieve a value
        Information wanted is not found at index it is supposed to be at.
        Keep increasing index until correct index holding the information is found.
Define 'Linear Queue'
    Items removed from the front and added to the end (FIFO).
    Head-pointer: indicates first item of the queue.
    NextFree-pointer: indicates the next free space in which an item can be added.
Define 'List'
    Dynamic; mutable and multiple data types
    Ordered items
    Items can occur more than once
    Store items non-contiguously
Define 'Mutable'→Items can change
Define 'Post-Order Traversal'
    Outline the tree
    Nodes are traversed in order in which you pass them on the right
Define 'Pre-order Traversal'
    Outline tree
    Nodes are traversed in the order in which you pass them on the left
    Used in programming languages in which operation is written before the values (a+b => + a b)
Define 'Queue'
    data structure
    FIFO
    Items added to end of the queue and removed from front of the queue
Define 'Record'
    Can store multiple items of data under one identifier
    Can store data of different data types.
    Used in databases
Define 'Stack'
    abstract data structure
    FILO
    Items can only be added or removed from top/end of stack
    Implemented in either dynamic or static structures
Define 'Static'→Fixed number of items
Define 'Tuples'
    Data structure
    Ordered
    Any type of items
    Immutable
Define 'Undirected Graph'.→The edges can be transversed in both directions.
Define 'Weighted Graph'.→A cost is attatched to each edge
Explain 'Stack Overflow'→Error which occurs in static stacks when attempting to push an item onto a stack that is full
Explain 'Stack Underflow'→Error which occurs in static stacks when attempting to pop an item from an empty stack
Explain how backtracking is used in depth-first (post-order) traversals
    When a leaf node is reached
    Traversal backtracks to the leaf's parent node/last node with unvisited children
Give 2 characteristics of binary search tree.
    Each node can have 0, 1 or 2 child nodes.
    Nodes are ordered (left nodes less and right nodes greater than parent).
    Location to which a node is added depends on its order.
Give 3 advantages of storing tasks in a binary search tree instead of a 1D array.
    Searching is faster - O(n logn)
    Inserting new tasks is faster
    Do not need to sort the structure each time a new task is inserted.
How are 'Tuples' initialised?
    tupleExample = ("Value1", 2, "Value 3")
    
    Uses regular parenthesis instead of square ones
How are binary trees usually implemented?→Using two-dimensional arrays
How do computers process graphs (data structure)?→Use adjacency matrix or an adjacency list
How do you search through a '2D Array'?
    First go down the rows then across the columns to find a given position
    Opposite of method to find coordinates
How do you search through a '3D Array'?
    Must use the syntax: threeDimensionalArray[x,y,z]
    
    z => array number
    y => row number
    x => column number
Is memory wasted in static data structures?
    No
    Size of array is declared for number of data items that will be added when program is run
List 2 advantages of 'Adjacency Matrix'
    Time efficient; convenient to work with due quicker access times
    Easy to add nodes
    Suited for dense graphs (large number of nodes)
List 3 examples of where queues (data structure) are used.
    Printers
    Keyboards
    Simulators
List 4 examples of Queue Operations
    enQueue(value)
    deQueue
    isEmpty()
    isFull()
List 6 examples of Stack Operations
    isEmpty()
    isFull()
    pop()
    push(value)
    peek()
    size()
List 8 operations can be done with 'Lists'
    IsEmpty()
    append(value)
    remove(value)
    search(value)
    length()
    index(value)
    insert(pos, value)
    pop(position)
List an advantage of 'Adjacency Lists'
    Memory efficient; only stores existing edges
    Suited to sparse graphs (few edges)
List an example of where stacks could be used
    Used to reverse actions; go back a page in web browsers
    Undo buttons in apps
List the 3 methods of traversing a 'Binary Tree'
    Pre-order
    In-order
    Post-order
Stacks: static vs dynamic implementation
    Static implementation is prefered when max size required is known in advance
    As its easier to implement and make more efficient use of memory
State 5 ways a graph data structure is different from a tree data structure.
    Trees have a root node - graphs do not.
    Trees do not allow cycles - graphs allow it.
    Trees store hierarchy - graphs do not.
    Trees are always undirected - graphs can be.
    Trees are always connected - graphs can be.
What are 'Hash Tables' normally used for?→Indexing, as provide fast access to data due to keys having unique, one-to-one relationship with address at which they are stored
What are binary trees used for?
    Represent info for binary searches
    Binary trees are easy to search through
What are the main features of linked lists?
    Items are called nodes.
    Each item stored at a unique index.
    Have a data field which holds actual value stored.
    Use pointers to connect nodes.
    https://remnote-user-data.s3.amazonaws.com/7ruPDjNkKoLaxv3_qBs8W2NmZ9yQaEZcHwYl-egsrYoZ5E7XXY94kMLR5TyFz_cX4irM7i3QrL9A9s-m-OqE42t23skOt4OX3k1M6MscalLfF3_m1duS73CnWaIX6EVq.jpeg
What are the 2 graph categories (data structures)
    Directed Graph
    Undirected Graph
    Weighted Graph
What is the advantage of using hash tables over linked lists?
    Linked lists requires every node to be checked; longer to search. As list grows, time to access the node grows.
    Hash tables enables direct access to the location of the record; same time will be taken as more nodes are added.
What are the three cases of Hash Tables for .add()?
    Nothing found at index => key is added at this index
    Same key found at index => nothing is done as key is already stored there
    Different key found at index => Linear probing, linked lists
What are the three cases of Hash Tables for .get()?
    Nothing found at index => returns nothing
    Same key found at index => return it
    Different key found at index => Linear probing, linked lists
What are the two ways of traversing a graph?
    Depth-first
    Breadth-first
What does 'memory stored non-contiguously' mean?→Data does not need to be stored one next to each other in the memory
What does the 'pointer field' of Linked Lists contain?→Contains address (index) of the next item in the list
What happens if not enough memory is allocated to a static data structure?→Program will crash or not work properly
What is a '2D array'?
    2 dimentional array
    Collection of data items arranged in columns and rows
    Visualised as a table or worksheet
What is a '3D Array'?
    3 Dimensional array
    Can be visualised as a multi-page spreadsheet
    Can be thought as multiple 2D arrays
What is a 1D array?
    Linear Array
    Consecutive items have sequential indexes; one more than previous
    0 indexed
List two disadvantages of linked lists compared to arrays.
    Uses lots of memory: storing pointers and when removing items they are not fully removed just pointers are updated.
    Linked lists are stored in a sequence - cannot simply directly access item like with an array. Must traverse pointers.
What is meant by 'Breadth-First Traversal'→Involves visiting all the adjoining nodes for each node in turn
What is meant by 'Depth-First Traversal' of graphs?
    Involves travelling down one route as far as possible
    Before reversing and travelling as far down the next route as possible
What is the most common way to represent a binary tree?→By storing each node with a left pointer and a right pointer
How are hash tables and hash functions related?
    Hash function takes input data (key) and outputs a hashed value (index).
    Value is stored at that index.
    To retrieve data: hash function hashes same key to same index, so value can be read from the given index from the table.